Lab 06 LaTeX

Before the Lab

The following links should be posted on Avenue.  The students should be asked to
review the material in advance of their lab.  In particular, they should watch
the second youtube video.

http://www.andy-roberts.net/writing/latex

https://www.latex-project.org/

Some helpful lessons on YouTube:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y-kXtWdjtmw

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SoDv0qhyysQ


During the lab

1. Welcome students to the lab.

2. Explain the topic for the lab will be the type setting language LaTeX.

3. Point them to:

http://www.andy-roberts.net/writing/latex

and ask them to spend 20-30 minutes reviewing and completing the examples.  (You
can put this up on Avenue, along with links to additional resources.)  The
resource should include specific exercises that they can work through.  If the
students have already done this, you can ask them to proceed to steps 5 and 6.

4. Begin moving through the class asking them questions to ascertain that they
have been participating.  Record the names of the students that are not present,
or not engaged.  Please put this information in a google sheet in our google
drive 3xa3 folder.  While you are doing this, the students should be working on
the next items in this script.

5. Ask them to write the problem statement in LaTeX, if they havenâ€™t already
done so.  Commit the tex file and pdf file to GitLab.

6. Ask them to start writing their requirements specification in LaTeX.  Remind
them that there is an example requirements tex file on Avenue.  Commit the tex
file and pdf file to GitLab.


The students will either use an installed version of LaTeX on their machines, or
they can use ssh into mills and run it from there.

If the students use their own machines, you can do your best to help them with
any installation or editor issues, but do not spend much time on this.  There
are too many problems that could happen for us to possibly know the solution to
all of them.  Remind the students that they can use google to help them with
installation issues.  They also have the option to post on Avenue to see if any
of their colleagues can help.

If the students are having trouble with their local installation of LaTeX, or if
they prefer, they can use mills.  To login to mills they use:

ssh mills.cas.mcmaster.ca

They can run LaTeX by typing latex followed by the file that they want to
compile.  This will take a tex file and produce a dvi file.  The dvi file can be
transformed to ps, and the ps file to pdf.  For most students it will actually
be easier if they simply use pdflatex.  This takes a tex file and produces a pdf
directly.  You run pdflatex by typing the program name at the prompt followed by
the name of the tex file.

To upload and download files from mills, the students can use sftp.
